Whenever a process comes or executes it is assigned a physical or virtual memory.  The process by which the memory is partially or fully reserved for the execution of programs or processes is called memory allocation. Programs and services are assigned with a specific memory as per their requirements when they are executed.  Once the program has finished its operation or is idle, the memory is released and allocated to another program or merged within the primary memory.  We made a simulator showing how the memory is allocated to the processes that will be convenient, efficient to use, and easy to understand.

This is a c based project to show how memory is allocated to various processes. The project will run on Linux based operating system. The interface will take input from the user about what is the size of the memory and which efficient algorithm to choose while allocating the memory, i.e. first fit, best fit, worst fit. We can add as many processes as we want in the program and can remove a process whenever we want. We can also reset the whole system to remove all processes at once and bring the system to its default value. This will give flexibility to the project and improve the user experience. The project can work on low-end operating systems also. It will be a simple project and will have a scope of adding a GUI experience better and much more efficient.  

This will be a basic project which will have a scope of adding good animations and will be more interesting and interactive for the user. In this project, one can add the scheduling of the processes in future also which will also show the simulation of the process scheduling.
